# PyBer Analysis Challenge 5

## Overview of Project

V. Isualize wanted an analysis of the PyBer data to capture key information about city types for making future decisions that will ultimately impact the company's direction. The purpose of this analysis is to import data from multiple CSV files and explore tools provided by Jupyter Notebook, Pandas, and Matplotlib. This ride-share analysis was performed by using features built into Jupyter, Pandas, and Matplotlib to provide the following deliverables mentioned below. 

- Deliverable 1: A ride-sharing summary DataFrame by city type

- Deliverable 2: A multiple-line chart of total fares for each city type

- Deliverable 3: A Written Report for the CyBer analysis


## PyBer Analysis Results

- Ride-sharing data for total rides, total drivers, total fares, and total fare by city type: Unsurprisingly, the city type with the greatest number of total rides, drivers, fares, and total revenue is urban followed by suburban and rural. Most likely due to the fact that commuting with PyBer in an urban area is by far more convenient than in suburban and rural areas. Factors including limited parking, small travel distances, traffic, public transit systems, etc. Thus, when observing the figure titled "Total Fare by City Type" it makes complete sense why the majority of income is generated by urban city types and not in suburban nor rural city types. 

- Ride-sharing data for average fare per ride and driver:
A similar picture is painted when observing the averages for fares and drivers based on city types for the same reasons as mentioned above. In urban areas, the average fare per ride and average fare by driver is lower than suburban and rural areas. Once again, due to the conveniences of being in a centralized location and factors such as having to only travel small distances as well as having increased access to drivers. These conveniences are reflected in the fares experienced by both the riders and drivers.

## Summary 

- 1: After reviewing the PyBer ride-sharing results, it seems to be in the best interest of the company to keep investing the majority of its future goals in urban city types. Not saying to neglect suburban nor rural city types, but the majority of profits will be driven by urban areas due to factors that are uncontrollable by the company itself. Most of these factors driven by convenience and a lot of this convenience is only found within the urban city types. 

- 2: For future endeavors, while it is not completely ideal, it would be a good idea to track growth for suburban and rural city types. The growth metric that would be tracked would be cities that are on the cusp of imploding in terms of infrastructure and population. This would allow PyBer to set up a strong foundation before its competitors and secure a strong market position. 

-3: If PyBer desires to see more immediate changes and influences over the suburban and rural city types, a good option would be to set up a group ride-share system through buses and larger transport vehicles. Hopefully, lowering the average fare per ride and enticing more riders from these areas to use PyBer. It would be in aspirations of generating the conveniences that are present in urban areas but not in rural areas and ultimately reducing the data discrepancies found between the three city types. 
